M: MongoDn (Database) 
E: Express (Backend)
R: React (Frontend)
N: NodeJs (Backend)


## Frontend (Browser / Client side)         Bcakend (Server Side)      DB (Server Side)
  
      React App                                ExpressJs + NodeJs        MongoDb



## Backend
  
  # npm init
  # npm i epxpress
  # npm i mongoose
  # npm i dotenv
  # npm i nodemon
  # npm i cors

## Api Endpoint

Method              API                 Work

GET             /workouts           --> Get all the To-do list 
POST            /workouts           --> Create a new To-Do 
DELETE          /workouts/:id       --> Delete a single To-Do 
PATCH           /workouts/:id       --> Update a single TO-Do  


## Frontend
  # npx create-react-app
  # npm i react-router-dom



# To-Do App Project

## Working of To-Do App

### Frontend
On the main page, all todos are retrieved from the database using the **GET** method.  
The following functionalities are available on the page:

- **Edit:** Edit a todo using the **PATCH** method with the API call `/api/todos/:id`
- **Delete:** Delete a todo using the **DELETE** method with the API call `/api/todos/:id`
- **Add New:** Add a new todo using the **POST** method with the API call `/api/todos/addnew`
- **Todo with id:** Get single todo with **Get** method with the API call `/api/todos/:id`


### Backend
Based on the API calls, the backend retrieves data, edits data, or adds new data to the database.  
Using a database connection and a todo model, all the data stored in the database is managed through the backend.

### Database
I used a MongoDB cluster, which stores data on an online cloud.  
With the help of the backend, the database is updated accordingly.

---

## Problems Faced in the To-Do App Project

### Frontend
- To update objects on the page in real time, I applied **useReducer**, which I learned from a previous lecture.
- While sending full details of todos, I faced issues with passing unique keys for individual todos.
- In the edit functionality, I struggled to adjust the font size properly.
- The edit popup is easilt set but at delete popup i face some issues due to i try to show popup from fullDetialstodos page but due to delete the todo is deleted with id and my delete popup is not shown in page, then with help of useContext i track the delete popup from home page.

- For find todo with ids, i littel bit confuse about how to give Id's wchich is generated by MongoDb but after taht, I Give id of first todo of databse as default ids to proper check the flow of code.

### Backend
- I faced issues while setting up the database connection.
- While creating the todo model, I had difficulty setting the default status (completed or not). Eventually, I set the default value to **false** when adding new todos.
- For proper setup for error handling I change approx all api part with try and catch block

### Deployment
- I first deployed the backend on **Railway**. While setting environment variables, I faced some issues, which I resolved with the help of YouTube videos.
- Due to not using the **CORS** function in the backend, I faced issues with different URLs for the frontend and backend. I resolved this by using a `netlify.toml` file in the frontend.
- During the deployment of both the frontend and backend, I took help from YouTube tutorials.
- Firstly i deploy frontend wtih netlify but at this time i deply frontend with help of versal, here I faced to connet backend url with frontend page but I did that with some help taken from documentation and internet. 


---

<!-- ## Deployed Link (Old)
🔗 https://chic-monstera-6ba20d.netlify.app/ -->


## Deployed Link With versel(Latest)
🔗 https://to-do-app-theta-blush.vercel.app/
